#summary Overview of the Albion data file formats.

= Introduction =

Albion was developed back in 1995 when piracy of PC games was on a much smaller scale than it is today and a simple CD present check was sufficient to prevent piracy (nobody had a CD writer back then!).

Because of this, few (if any) of the data files are encrypted. This page documents some of the different file formats used by the game.

== XLD Archives ==
||*Offset*||*Length*||*Name*||*Description*||
||0||4||magic||Magic number. The file signature (XLD0).||
||5||1||unknown||||
||7||2||entries||The number of objects stored within the archive.||
||9||entries `*` 4||lengths||A list of long integers (4 bytes) which store the length of the stored object.|||


== ITEMNAME.DAT ==

This file contains the names of all the items within the game. They are translated into English, German and French.

Each record is 60 bytes long and there are 463 records.

||*Offset*||*Length*||*Description*||
||0||20||German text||
||21||20||English text||
||41||20||French text||

== ITEMLIST.DAT ==

There are 463 records this file and each record is 40 bytes long.

||*Offset*||*Length*||*Name*||*Description*||
||0||1||unknown||||
||1||1||typeid||Item type.||
||2||1||unknown||||
||3||1||unknown||||
||4||1||gender||Determines which gender can use this item. 2 = female, 3 = any||
||5||1||unknown||||
||6||1||lpMaxBonus||Bonus value to life points.||
||7||1||lpMaxBonus||Bonus value to spell points.||
||8||1||attributeType||Attribute bonus type.||
||9||1||attributeBonus||Attribute bonus value.||
||11||1||skillType||Skill bonus type.||
||12||1||skillBonuys||Skill bonus value.||
||13||1||protection||Protection from physical damage.||
||14||1||damage||Physical damage caused.||
||15||1||unknown||unknown||
||16||1||skillTax1Type||Skill Tax 1 Type||
||17||1||skillTax2Type||Skill Tax 2 Type||
||18||1||skillTax1||Skill Tax 1 value. [Items#Ranged_Values Ranged Values]||
||19||1||skillTax2||Skill Tax 2 value. [Items#Ranged_Values Ranged Values]||
||20||1||unknown||unknown||
||21||1||unknown||unknown||
||22||1||unknown||unknown||
||23||1||unknown||unknown||
||24||1||spell||spell or enchantment on item||
||25||1||charges||spell or enchantment charges available||
||26||1||maxcharges||maxiumum spell or enchantment charges||
||27||1||unknown||unknown||
||28||1||unknown||unknown||
||29||1||unknown||unknown||
||30||1||unknown||unknown||
||31||2||weight||weight of the item in grammes||
||33||1||unknown||unknown||
||34||1||unknown||unknown||
||35||2||icon||Image for the item||
||37||1||unknown||unknown||
||38||1||unknown||unknown||
||39||1||unknown||unknown||
||40||1||unknown||unknown||


== ITEMGFX ==

Each item has an icon associated with it. Each image is 32x32 pixels in size with one byte per pixel. The images are indexed against a 256 color palette.

As yet I have not determined which palette.


== PALETTE.000 ==

This file contains 64 colors with 1 byte per component (r, g, b) per color. 

||*Offset*||*Length*||*Description*||
||0||1||Red||
||1||1||Green||
||2||1||Blue||

There is no alpha channel.

It is worth noting that each of the entries in PALETTE0.XLD is the same format as this, except that they contain 192 colours. They are merged with this palette to form a 256 colour palette.

== SPELLDAT.DAT ==

Unknown format. This file is 1050 bytes long and there are 53 spells in the game.

== SLAB ==

This is a 300x200 indexed image. I believe it is used as the background of the main menu. The palette is unknown.