*TODO*: a lot still needs to be done here, this is just a collection of various observations and notes, without any details !

= Header =
|| *Offset* || *Length* || *Description* ||
||0||2|| Length of the savename ||
||2||2|| Unknown ||
||4||variable|| Name of the savegame ||

||0||4|| Unknown ||
||4||1|| Version number ||
||5||7|| Unknown ||
||12||2|| In-game days ? ||
||14||2|| In-game hours ||
||16||2|| In-game minutes ||
||18||2|| Map number ||
||20||2|| Party X-coordinate ||
||22||2|| Party Y-coordinate ||

 * For the next part no clear structure was yet identified. For reference purposes it is convenient to use v_offs as a designation for the offset of the version number.
 * Starting at offset 0x19E + v_offs there are 2 byte switches that determine which characters are available.
 * Some kind of bool tables related to event switches and disabled event chains were found in the vicinity of 0x286 + v_offs and 0x1067 + v_offs. The exact scope and details of these are still unknown. Likely the changes are directly related to events with the "Modify" type.
 * The first easily discernible structure consists of 0x80 byte blocks for each NPC. There are at least values for NPC-chardata, NPC-gfx, linked NPC-event, movement type, step-in-sequence, current X, current Y, next X, next Y, facing/orientation.
 * Directly after there are some unknown bytes that seemingly belong to 0x23 blocks.
 * The final part of the savegame header contains a list that stores various in-game changes, like disabled events, removed item overlay graphics, etc. The list is divided into several chunks, where each chunk is preceded by 4 bytes to indicate the chunk size, and 2 bytes for the number of entries. Between chunks there can be variations in the size of the individual entries (e.g. 8 or 6 bytes), but never within chunks.

= Archived XLD files =

At the start of a new game these are loaded from the INITIAL directory, and during play they are temporarily stored in the CURRENT directory.
The default sequence is:<br>
PRTCHAR0.XLD<br>
PRTCHAR1.XLD<br>
PRTCHAR2.XLD<br>
AUTOMAP1.XLD<br>
AUTOMAP2.XLD<br>
AUTOMAP3.XLD<br>
CHESTDT0.XLD<br>
CHESTDT1.XLD<br>
CHESTDT2.XLD<br>
CHESTDT5.XLD<br>
MERCHDT0.XLD<br>
MERCHDT1.XLD<br>
MERCHDT2.XLD<br>
NPCCHAR0.XLD<br>
NPCCHAR1.XLD<br>
NPCCHAR2.XLD<br>
Before every XLD there are 8 bytes; the first 4 indicate the file size, the next 2 seem to indicate the data category (e.g. PRTCHAR or NPCCHAR) and the final 2 correlate with the number in the filename (0, 1, etc.).

= PRTCHAR data =
*TODO*: overall and character size (940 bytes?)

== character data ==

=== character attributes and misc values ===
{{{
[level]
[face?]
[15 bytes ?]
[TP 2 bytes]
[gold ((2 bytes)/10)]
[rations]
[10 bytes ?]
}}}

*TODO*: attributes

=== character equipped items ===
(9*6 bytes = 54 bytes)

*TODO*: format

=== character inventory ===
(24*6 bytes = 144 bytes)

*TODO*: format